docs/v0.0_verification.md, before:

# v0.0 Verification Log

This document captures verification evidence for the v0.0 release line, including the commands exercised during validation, hashes of deterministic simulation outputs, viewer snapshot references, and open follow-ups required for sign-off.

## Executed Commands

| Date | Command | Purpose | Notes |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| TODO | `cargo build -p simd -p simstep` | Build headless daemon and batch runner | Record the toolchain revision when executed. |
| TODO | `cargo test -p sim_core` | Run kernel unit/property tests | Capture stdout excerpt if failures are triaged. |
| TODO | `cargo run -p simstep -- --seed-file ./testdata/seeds/seed_wet_equator.json --ticks 20 --out ./target/tmp.ndjson` | Generate comparison NDJSON for regression diffing | Ensure diff against `./testdata/golden/seed_wet_equator.ndjson` is attached. |
| TODO | `cargo run -p simd -- --seed-file ./testdata/seeds/seed_wet_equator.json --port 8080` | Launch streaming daemon for viewer smoke tests | Document the platform and any feature flags. |
| TODO | `godot4 --path ./viewer_godot` | Attach viewer to live stream | Include screenshot reference under [Viewer Snapshots](#viewer-snapshots). |

> TODO(agents): Replace placeholders with the actual execution dates, environment notes, and log excerpts once the validation pass is complete.

## Deterministic Run Hashes

Record hashes of canonical NDJSON captures to demonstrate deterministic behavior. Use `shasum -a 256` (or platform-equivalent) on golden outputs and keep the tool version noted.

| Seed File | Tick Count | Artifact Path | SHA-256 | Notes |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `./testdata/seeds/seed_wet_equator.json` | 20 | `./testdata/golden/seed_wet_equator.ndjson` | TODO | Replace once recomputed after kernel changes. |

> TODO(agents): If new golden runs are produced, include both pre- and post-change hashes with rationale.

## Viewer Snapshots

When exercising the Godot viewer, capture a representative frame (PNG or MP4) and stash it under `./docs/assets/` with a descriptive filename. Reference those artifacts here once available.

* TODO: Link snapshot illustrating initial biome/water overlay while connected to the daemon.
* TODO: Note any anomalies (e.g., tile flicker, HUD desync) observed during the session.

## Outstanding Assumptions and TODOs

* Validation relies on the commands listed above; no additional tooling has been ratified for v0.0. Update this section if auxiliary scripts are introduced.
* Document any deviations from determinism expectations (e.g., platform-specific float behavior) and include mitigation steps.
* Track open verification-related issues (GitHub ticket IDs or TODO anchors) to ensure they are resolved before promoting beyond v0.0.

---

_Last updated: TODO — populate during the first completed verification dry run._

Commit message:

Document NDJSON field checks and deterministic verification steps

docs/v0.0_verification.md, after:

# v0.0 Verification Log

This document captures verification evidence for the v0.0 release line, including the commands exercised during validation, hashes of deterministic simulation outputs, viewer snapshot references, and open follow-ups required for sign-off.

## Executed Commands

| Date | Command | Purpose | Notes |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| TODO | `cargo build -p simd -p simstep` | Build headless daemon and batch runner | Record the toolchain revision when executed. |
| TODO | `cargo test -p sim_core` | Run kernel unit/property tests | Capture stdout excerpt if failures are triaged. |
| TODO | `cargo run -p simstep -- --seed-file ./testdata/seeds/seed_wet_equator.json --ticks 20 --out ./target/tmp.ndjson` | Generate comparison NDJSON for regression diffing | Ensure diff against `./testdata/golden/seed_wet_equator.ndjson` is attached. |
| TODO | `diff -u ./target/tmp.ndjson ./testdata/golden/seed_wet_equator.ndjson` | Verify regenerated frames | Confirm the diff reflects the `world`, `insolation`, `tide_envelope`, and `elevation` fields introduced by the latest kernels. |
| TODO | `shasum -a 256 ./testdata/golden/seed_wet_equator.ndjson` | Record deterministic hash | Note the tool version and capture the digest once outputs are approved. |
| TODO | `cargo run -p simd -- --seed-file ./testdata/seeds/seed_wet_equator.json --port 8080` | Launch streaming daemon for viewer smoke tests | Document the platform and any feature flags. |
| TODO | `godot4 --path ./viewer_godot` | Attach viewer to live stream | Include screenshot reference under [Viewer Snapshots](#viewer-snapshots). |

> TODO(agents): Replace placeholders with the actual execution dates, environment notes, and log excerpts once the validation pass is complete.

## Deterministic Run Hashes

Record hashes of canonical NDJSON captures to demonstrate deterministic behavior. Use `shasum -a 256` (or platform-equivalent) on golden outputs and keep the tool version noted.

| Seed File | Tick Count | Artifact Path | SHA-256 | Notes |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| `./testdata/seeds/seed_wet_equator.json` | 20 | `./testdata/golden/seed_wet_equator.ndjson` | TODO | Replace once recomputed after kernel changes. |

> TODO(agents): If new golden runs are produced, include both pre- and post-change hashes with rationale.

## Viewer Snapshots

When exercising the Godot viewer, capture a representative frame (PNG or MP4) and stash it under `./docs/assets/` with a descriptive filename. Reference those artifacts here once available.

* TODO: Link snapshot illustrating initial biome/water overlay while connected to the daemon.
* TODO: Note any anomalies (e.g., tile flicker, HUD desync) observed during the session.

## Outstanding Assumptions and TODOs

* Validation relies on the commands listed above; no additional tooling has been ratified for v0.0. Update this section if auxiliary scripts are introduced.
* Document any deviations from determinism expectations (e.g., platform-specific float behavior) and include mitigation steps.
* Track open verification-related issues (GitHub ticket IDs or TODO anchors) to ensure they are resolved before promoting beyond v0.0.

---

_Last updated: TODO — populate during the first completed verification dry run._
